Feature Flags Dashboard
 
Tech Stack:
Backend: Node.js + Express (or any simple REST framework)
Frontend: React (preferred) or any modern SPA framework
Database: In-memory (no need for real DB)

1. App Details
You need to build a Feature Flags Dashboard where users can:
View all feature flags and their status (ON/OFF)
Search for flags by name or key
Toggle a flag’s enabled status
Handle concurrent updates correctly (conflict detection)
See summary stats (total / enabled / disabled)
Think of it as a mini internal developer tool for managing feature rollouts.
 
2. What the App Does
Shows a list of feature flags from the backend
Allows searching by keyword
Lets the user toggle any flag (enabled ↔ disabled)
Displays summary stats at the top (e.g. “3 enabled / 2 disabled”)
Handles version conflicts gracefully (if someone else updated the flag before you)

3. Data Structure / Architecture
Each Feature Flag object should look like this:
 
{
  "key": "checkout_v2",
  "name": "New Checkout Flow",
  "enabled": true,
  "owner": "pm@company.com",
  "updatedAt": "2025-10-29T10:15:00Z",
  "version": 3
}
 
Notes
key – unique identifier for the flag
enabled – true = ON, false = OFF
version – integer that increments every time a flag is updated (used for concurrency control)
updatedAt – last updated timestamp
Store these in memory (array or object).
No need for a real database.
 
 
4. Backend API Requirements
You must build the following REST endpoints.
GET /flags?search=...
Returns a list of all flags.
If search query is provided, return only flags whose key or name includes the search text (case-insensitive).
Example:
GET /flags?search=check → returns flags with “check” in their key/name.

PATCH /flags/:key
Toggle or update a flag’s enabled state.
Request body:
Validate the version:
If version in request ≠ current version → return 409 Conflict with:
On success:
Update enabled
Increment version
Update updatedAt
Return updated flag

GET /stats
Returns a summary of total, enabled, and disabled flags.
Auth Requirement
All API requests must include a header:
x-api-key: testkey 
If missing or wrong → return 401 Unauthorized.

5. Frontend Requirements
Main Page
Display a search input box.
Debounce input by ~300ms before calling backend.
Display the flags in a table/list:
Columns: Key, Name, Owner, Enabled (toggle), Updated At
Show the stats summary above the table (from /stats).
Toggle Behavior
When user flips a toggle:
Immediately update UI (optimistic update)
Call PATCH /flags/:key
If success → refresh that flag’s row with returned data
If 409 conflict → rollback the change and show error message (“Updated by someone else”)
If any other error → rollback and show “Something went wrong”
Extra (optional)
Show loading states while fetching data
Nicely handle empty or error states
Simple, clean UI (no need for fancy styling)

6. Example Initial Data
Seed your backend with 5–6 flags:
Key	Name	Enabled	Owner
checkout_v2	New Checkout Flow	true	pm@corp.com
ab_banner	Homepage Banner Test	false	mkt@corp.com
fast_search	Fast Search Rollout	true	search@corp.com
price_fix	Price Rounding Feature	false	fin@corp.com
recs_v3	Recommendations Engine v3	true	ml@corp.com

7. Evaluation Criteria
Area	What We’re Looking For
Backend	Clean API structure, correct HTTP codes, version conflict handling
Frontend	Debounced search, optimistic UI, rollback handling, clean component design
Code Quality	Modular, readable, clear naming
Completeness	All endpoints + basic UI functionality
Depth	How gracefully errors & concurrency are handled

8. Deliverables
Backend: simple Node.js server (single file or small structure)
Frontend: React app (minimal UI is fine)
Both should run locally with npm start
Provide brief README.md with instructions to start both parts.

lokesh@sheshi.ai